18 March 2026

IMPORTANT NOTICE:  

On March 18th, the Recurrent CNV files were all updated to V2.1.  We strongly recommend you modify any automated import scripts to begin using the V2.1 files.  The V2.0 files will remain available for the short term to allow adequate time for migration to the new files.

If you have any questions, please contact us at clingen@clinicalgenome.org.

Best Regards,

The ClinGen Dosage Sensitivity Team


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

This site holds files produced by the Dosage Sensitivity Curation Working Group of the ClinGen Consortium (formerly the ISCA Evidence based review committee). The goal of this group is to curate regions of the genome with respect to their dosage sensitivity. More information about this effort can be found on these sites:

https://dosage.clinicalgenome.org/

https://www.clinicalgenome.org/working-groups/dosage-sensitivity-curation/

The files in this directory contain data for genes and regions that have been through the review process. These files are updated daily. Files are available for genes and regions localized on both GRCh37 and GRCh38.

tsv files: The tsv files have a header and contain all of the curation information found on the ClinGen Dosage Sensitivity Map web pages:

ClinGen_gene_curation_list.tsv: tab separated file for gene curation
ClinGen_region_curation_list.tsv: tab separated file for region curation

BED files: BED files are available for gene curation. There are separate files for haploinsufficiency and triplosensitivity as the BED file only has one column for 'score'. Because the score column expects a number rather than text, the following scores have been converted to numbers:
Dosage sensitivity unlikely: 40
Gene associated with autosomal recessive phenotype: 30

For more information on scoring: https://dosage.clinicalgenome.org/help.shtml

ClinGen_haploinsufficiency_gene.bed: BED file with haploinsufficiency scores
ClinGen_triplosensitivity_gene.bad: BED file with triplosensitivity scores

ClinGen_recurrent_CNV_V2.1.aed - This file contains recurrent copy number variations (CNV) that have been, or are in the process of being, reviewed by the recurrent CNV ClinGen DSC Subgroup. This file is available in genome build hg37 and hg38 and can be opened in ChAS software. The orange bars represent each recurrent region. The black bars represent the segmental duplication clusters/breakpoints. 

ClinGen_recurrent_CNV_V2.1.bed - This file contains recurrent copy number variations (CNV) that have been, or are in the process of being, reviewed by the recurrent CNV ClinGen DSC Subgroup. This file is available in genome build hg37 and hg38 and can be opened in array analysis software that utilizes .bed files as well as the UCSC genome browser. The orange bars represent each recurrent region. The black bars represent the segmental duplication clusters/breakpoints.
